we've also heard from the UN Secretary
General Antonio gutterz he condemned the
attack on the hospital he's calling for
an immediate humanitarian
ceasefire I am horrified by the hundreds
of people killed at alhi hospital this
same day in Gaza by a strike that I
strongly condemned earlier
today I call for an immediate
humanitarian ceasefire to provide
sufficient time and space
to help realize my St appeals and to Wi
the Epic human suffering we are
witnessing diplomatic editor James baze
is now here on set good to have you with
us back again James so is this attack on
the hospital going to speed up the
security council's issuing finally to
issue a resolution I think we're going
to have a resolution voted on in the
coming hours It's Brazil That's come up
with this resolution we had the 12 24
hours ago from Russia uh which was uh
not supported by the majority of the
security Council and the US were V were
lobbying very strongly against that one
this one has been significantly watered
down because of us pressure and pressure
from the US's close allies the UK and
France it it originally called for an
immediate ceasefire it's now changed
that wording to humanitarian pauses now
what I'm understanding is do that mean
exactly then if we're not we heard the
secretary General's call there for a
Seas fire if the wording comes out for a
human humanitarian pause what does well
also the secretary General's wording was
a humanitarian Ceasar again maybe not
that probably means a non-permanent
Ceasar what I think they mean by
humanitarian pauses is a stop to allow
some Aid to get into Gaza that's what
has been the deal that's the UN have
been working for and actually secretary
blinkin has been working for some for
for some days the US Secretary of State
has been working on a basic deal which
would be to try and get the Americans
and other duel Nationals we think
there're about 5 to 600 people who have
American passports in Gaza they're all
waiting at Rafa to get Rafa open to get
them out and then to get some Aid
particularly water into Gaza this is
this this is the sort of um basis of the
deal that that has been discussed uh and
if there was a security Council
resolution senior un officials tell me
that they hope would be the final thing
that could push this deal through why
has it not happened so far it's because
the Israelis say they are very concerned
about what might come into Gaza with the
aid they're concerned there might be
weapons there might be ammunition uh and
on the other side uh the Egyptians are
very concerned about who actually would
leave Gaza would the would the gates be
stormed at Rafa would lots of people try
and get out and they the Egyptians
certainly do not want a mass
displacement of people from Gaza into
Egypt of course a lot of concern in this
part of the world about once you get
foreign Nationals out where does that
leave the people but we'll leave that
maybe for another discussion for now
thanks so much James baz for coming in
and chatting with us